Title: Deepway Merchants
Date: 2024-01-30
Category: Gaming
Tags: gaming, dnd, beyond-the-known
Status: published
Author: Austin
Summary: Deepway Merchants

# **The Deepway Merchants**

<img src="/extra/beyond-the-known/6ebc62c0/media/image1.png"
style="width:4.67192in;height:4.66218in" />

## Overview

**Primary Activities:** The Deepway Merchants are a trading consortium
of moderate renown; specializing in the exchange of rare and exotic
goods between the surface and the Underdark. Their catalog includes
precious minerals unique to the Underdark, magical fungi, and alchemical
ingredients, alongside surface commodities like fine textiles, metals,
and arcane tomes. They are also known (to those with a reason to know)
for trafficking in information, serving as brokers for knowledge passing
between domains.

**Connections to the Underdark:** Beyond the Drow city of Erelhei-Cinlu,
the Merchants maintain a network of contacts throughout the Underdark,
including the Svirfneblin (Deep Gnomes), and occasional dealings with
renegade Duergar, always ensuring their neutrality and safety through
careful negotiation and trade agreements. Their ability to navigate the
complex politics of the Underdark's various factions makes them
invaluable to those few seeking to engage with its denizens.

**Buffer Role:** The Deepway Merchants serve as a crucial buffer between
the surface world and the underdark. They facilitate trade and
communication while respecting the secrecy and security of the Drow's
cities. Details on access to the underdark are generally unknown to the
surface. Drow raids have been less common lately but are still in recent
enough memory for them to remain feared and hated.

**Surface Reputation:** On the surface, the Deepway Merchants are seen
as adventurous, mysterious traders who bring wonders from the depths
below. Their reputation is generally positive, as they often bring
valuable goods and knowledge otherwise inaccessible to surface dwellers.
They are respected for their reliability and the risks they undertake to
bridge the worlds above and below, contributing to the prosperity of
surface markets and the spread of knowledge. They make strong claims
about having nothing to do with the darker sides of the Drow.

## Extra Details

#### Leadership & Structure

The consortium operates under the guidance of a group of senior
merchants elected from among the most experienced members. This council
makes decisions on trade routes, alliances, and policies, ensuring the
group's continued prosperity and neutrality. Within the council, each
member specializes in a particular domain, from arcane artifacts to
diplomatic relations, contributing their expertise to the collective's
success. All decisions are made by committee to reduce the chance of
outside influence gaining complete control over the consortium through
influence of a single member.

#### Trade Specialities

The Deepway Merchants are renowned for their exclusive trade in magical
items and spell components, items sought after by mages and scholars of
the surface. For the particularly discerning customer, maps of the
underdark may be available, but only at exorbitant cost since the Drow
specifically ban their distribution in order to frustrate counter
attacks by surface groups after raids.

#### Ethical Codes & Morals

The Deepway Merchants abide by a strict code of Neutrality and
Discretion, ensuring their survival in the precarious balance between
the surface and the Underdark. They adhere to a principle of
Non-Interference ðŸ‡¨ðŸ‡­, refusing to take sides in conflicts that do not
directly affect their trade. Additionally, they maintain a Code of
Silence regarding the darker aspects of the Underdark, particularly
those involving the Drow, to preserve their relationships and ensure the
safety of their routes.
