Title: Niaelo's Web - Schemes
Date: 2024-01-30
Category: Gaming
Tags: gaming, dnd, beyond-the-known
Status: published
Author: Austin
Summary: Niaelo's Web - Schemes

# Lolth Conversion

I can see how to trick peasants and other simpletons into believing in a
warped version of Selune, but I’m not sure how to transition that faith
smoothly in a darker direction. It’ll need to be gradual, but the longer
it goes on the harder it might be to shift and more fragmented the
followers may become.

Depending on how many followers (potentially several enclaves) different
individuals or groups could be in different steps on the path to Lolth.
Having them interact with each other outside my control could be a
serious problem. Likewise, some followers might be ready to follow Lolth
right away. Maybe unlikely for surface dweller rats. It seems like
they’ll need more coaxing. I need to plan carefully.

## Risks

I know Lolth values ambition over loyalty, so I don’t need to worry
about the betrayal of creating pseudo followers of Selune as long as I’m
eventually successful in bringing more followers under her name. Failure
would mean death, or worse. Being discovered by other Drow while my work
is only half complete could give them the wrong impression. But surely
they’ll see my genius and bend to my will, furthering my goals. But if
not, they must be destroyed. And certainly cannot be allowed to reveal
my true intentions to my flies, or reveal my temporary subversion of
Lolth.

Sacrifices are of course the most valued acts in Lolth’s name, the more
valuable, vigorous, and pious the better. Perhaps I need not worry about
the most faithful revealing my plans to the other flies, when they have
accepted Lolth, they can be sacrificed in her name. And silenced as a
result for free.

# Progression

<img src="/extra/beyond-the-known/e2f01889/media/image1.webp"
style="width:6.31771in;height:1.9864in" />

There’s some perfect imagery to transition followers from light to dark
with the moon itself. The moon phase can act as rank for the sheep; that
can be publicly known. New followers begin on the full moon and work
their way towards the new moon, while accepting the darkness. Only in
further darkness is the “dark side of Selune”, the lies of light, and
the truth revealed.

## Full Moon - Initiation and Surface Worship

#### Symbolism:

**Lunar Imagery**: Emphasize the full moon in art and icons,
representing clarity, enlightenment, and the revealed truth.

**Colors of the Night Sky**: Use garments and decorations in soft
silvers, blues, and whites, embodying the light of the full moon.

#### Rituals:

**Moonlight Gatherings**: Host ceremonies in the open under the full
moon, focusing on the themes of illumination and community.

**Reflection and Meditation**: Encourage practices that reflect on the
visible, illuminated aspects of life, akin to the brightness of the full
moon.

#### Tenets:

**Embracing the Light**: Teachings focus on understanding and embracing
the light within oneself and the world, promoting a message of peace and
enlightenment.

#### Risks

-   I must be wary of skepticism from surface dwellers. Introducing
    myself as a Drow priestess of Selûne might draw suspicion.
    Convincing skeptics and those knowledgeable about lunar deities of
    my authenticity is a delicate task. An existing cult of Selune would
    make my work *much* more difficult.

-   As always, there's the risk of my true identity being exposed. I
    should gauge the impressions of the people on Drow before revealing
    myself. I’ll soon have the ability to disguise myself. This plan
    must start after that if the flies have had poor encounters with
    Drow before.

## Waning Moon - Discovery in Growing Darkness

#### Symbolism:

**Crescent Moon Imagery**: Highlight the crescent moon, symbolizing
growth, potential, and the journey ahead.

**Transition Colors**: Begin introducing hints of darker colors, like
deep blues and purples, to signify the deepening of knowledge.

#### Rituals:

**Stories of the Moon's Phases**: Share tales and parables that explore
the cycle of growth and the ebb and flow of light and darkness.

**Crescent Moon Rites**: Perform rituals that celebrate personal growth
and the quest for deeper understanding.

#### Tenets:

**Seeking Knowledge**: Emphasize the importance of seeking knowledge,
both of the light and of the shadows that it casts.

## New Moon - Total Darkness, Rejection of the Surface Light

#### Symbolism:

**Spider Motifs**: Introduce subtle spider motifs, indicating the
presence of a hidden, deeper power. Self determination and demand for
respect from the lesser.

**Dark Colors**: Adopt predominantly dark colors, especially blacks and
deep reds, representing the embrace of the unknown and the darkness.

#### Rituals:

**Shadow Plays**: Perform storytelling sessions that glorify cunning,
ambition, and strength found in darkness, traits of Lolth.

**Silent Prayers in Darkness**: Conduct meditations and prayers in
complete darkness, symbolizing communion with a deeper, hidden power.

True rituals to Lolth are done in the nude, which might cause cultural
problems depending on the flies. That might need to wait for the final
phase.

#### Tenets:

**Reverence of the Hidden Power**: Teach the highest truths of Lolth,
masked as deeper, esoteric teachings of Selûne, emphasizing the power
and wisdom found in darkness and deception.

#### Risks

-   I should prepare for accusations of heresy. Devout followers of
    Selûne and other deities might view these changes as blasphemous,
    potentially attracting dangerous attention from religious
    authorities.

## Waxing Moon - Lolth, Revealed

The truth revealed, everything they now believe and hold dear is
embodied in Lolth, the Spider Queen. Those that accept Her will progress
to join me in progressing my work. Others will be sacrificed, which will
please Lolth since they must have believed in her to have gotten this
far. Belief in deception, their betrayal punished with their sacrifice.
Perfection.

#### Risks

-   The revelation of worshiping Lolth carries significant backlash
    risks, leading to possible rebellion or open conflict. I’ll need
    allies to support me.

-   Betrayed followers may seek vengeance. Those who feel deceived by
    the revelation might pose a direct threat to me and my mission.

-   Exposing my allegiance to Lolth could attract numerous enemies,
    mostly from the surface but also potentially from the Underdark.
    This phase is where I must be most cautious, as I will have
    manipulated both realms.
