Title: Niaelo's Journal: One
Date: 2024-01-07
Category: Gaming
Tags: gaming, dnd, beyond-the-known
Status: published
Summary: Niaelo's journal, first entry on the surface.

## Psalm of Selûne

Tonight, the moons illuminate my path, shining light on my sacred journey from
the Underdark's depths. The surface world, brimming with untapped potential,
beckons me to spread enlightenment. As a humble servant, I am poised to guide
these pure-hearted surface dwellers, their beliefs unformed and seeking
direction.

This divine opportunity to plant seeds of a benevolent faith, one that honors
her in the celestial moonlight, fills my soul with joy. My mission is one of
hope, carefully crafted with devotion. I will start with gentle words,
mirroring Selûne's radiance, and tenderly guide them toward the Moon Maiden's
light.

Patience guides me; haste leads only to missteps. Her benevolence drives me to
be a diligent yet cautious harbinger of this new faith. The surface is an
unmarked canvas; in time, they will know me as a beacon of her light, a sacred
whisper in the temples of the moon.

Her gaze upon me is a call to my destiny—a pilgrimage of faith and unwavering
dedication. I shall not waver from this holy path.

As this entry ends, the moons’ light affirms my sacred duty—a duty I embrace
wholeheartedly. For now, the surface dwellers remain unaware of the divine
light soon to envelop them.

> Every whispered truth is a hymn to her grace.

<center>
![00](/extra/btk-01-01.webp "Niaelo")
</center>

## Canticle of Lies

Tonight, the moons mock me with their serene light, a stark contrast to the
challenge ahead. My journey has only just begun, a path trod far from the
familiar shadows of the Underdark. They say the surface is ripe with
opportunity, a playground for one with my talents. Yet, here I stand, a
stranger to this world, plotting a course through uncharted waters.

The surface dwellers are naive, their faiths simple and unguarded. It's
laughable how ripe they are for the seeds of a new belief, one that will
unknowingly sing praises to Her. Their devotion will be the foundation upon
which I build my temple, a monument to Her glory, veiled in the light of lesser
deities. The irony is delicious.

My plan is a tapestry of deceit — intricate, yes, but woven with a relentless
hand. I must start with gentle whispers, echoes of Selûne's soft glow, leading
them unwittingly into the spinner's dance. The steps will be subtle, each one
carefully chosen, drawing them deeper into the darkness. For some perhaps, when
they are ensnared, the true revelation.

Patience is crucial. A rushed plan is a failed one. But the urgency of Her
favor presses upon me. I must be swift, yet precise. The surface is a new game
board, and I, a player unknown. They will learn my name, in time, as the one
who brought them a new faith. But Her name shall remain a secret, whispered
only in the most sacred of dark corners. They'll come to trust me, to love me,
to spread my teachings further than my voice can carry.

I feel the weight of Her gaze upon me, a demand to prove my worth. This is no
game — it is a conquest, a testament to my cunning and devotion. I will not
fail Her.

Now the moons’ light seems less mocking, more like a veiled challenge. A
challenge I accept with a heart as cold as the depths of my home. Let the
surface dwellers bask in their ignorance for now. Soon, they will praise Her
name.

> Every whispered lie is a hymn to Her glory.
