Title: Hellin's Notes: Return to Caer-Dineval
Date: 2023-11-11
Category: Gaming
Tags: gaming, dnd
Status: published
Summary: Hellin's Super Cool Adventure Journal: Magic, Giants, and a Dragon, Oh My!

So, we were done with the Netherese Tower, which was weird but cool, and
we headed back up to the surface. And remembered oh! Tonk the Chonk is with us,
the cutest sled dog ever! Someone suggested eating him later, it was horrible.

Okay, this might sound crazy, but I had this dreamy daydream about these shiny
plants and this gorgeous centaur named Ceril from Lathander, the Morning Wood
Lord. He said I was special (of course) and that the Frost Maiden, Orille, was
up to no good. But gods can't just jump in and fix things, so it’s up to us.
Luckily, we're on the right track. Also, I can now shoot sunlight from my face!
How cool is that?

We were trying to get to this place called Caer-Dineval. Maybe we'd been there
before or something? On our way, we found this big Stonehenge-y thing with
these big chairs and creepy black birds. It made me think of frost giants. Did
you know they had a big war with dwarves like 100 years ago? They like their
god a lot. I like mine too, so much in common.

Inside, there was this big room with a giant door and these urns with runes –
Death, Mountain, War, and stuff. And there was this poem on the wall that was
super puzzling. Belasco and Gog messed around putting some things in the urns –
I picked the lock on the gate with my magical powers.

In the next room, I turned a golden key kind of on accident, and was suddenly
back outside, but with ghostly giants. They didn't want my gift and a huge
skeleton popped out of the ground! Gog and Belasco apparently saw it all
through a magic window. I zapped the skeleton with my new sunlight power. Then
I was back in the room.

Meanwhile, Belasco had a tough fight with a real giant. He died at least once,
maybe twice, there was blood all over the place. Gog and I had to help him out.
In the end, he killed the giant with a huge log. No idea where he was keeping
that. We got a nice loud horn out of it at least.

After a nap, we found a ship stuck in the snow and ice, called the Dark
Dutchess. Ice is water, so this didn't seem unusual to me. We read about
Captain Bluemoon and Luskan in an old journal. And then, an ice troll and
kobolds attacked us. We handled it. I also got a nice hat.

Downstairs there was a ton of loot. Almost like a hoard. But guess what? That
white dragon we met earlier showed up. He was so not happy, not sure exactly
why, maybe he wanted the treasure too. He picked up the whole ship and flew
away with us inside. We were like, in space probably, and then he dropped us
into the lake. Thank goodness we found a rowboat.

Finally, we got back to the shore, and there were Tonk and Gunnar, waiting for
us. We made it to Caer-Dineval! What a wild ride!
